we'll talk about today is recommended
nutrition specifically micronutrients or
vitamins antioxidants cell phone that's
in category so we've been told never
since we were kids or other totally you
need your vitamins you need your
vegetables kids need your vitamins so
the question is are the recommendations
correct and then the second question is
just by what like long life disease
avoidance performance clearly not
performance we're only measuring
performance for the last let's say a
hundred years really and a lot of these
recommendations are from way before that
so so Lenny let me start off with a
study that came out in 2010 now this is
in the journal the Journal of the
International Society of sports
nutrition so prevalence of my four
micronutrient deficiency and popular
diet plans so they compared the
availability of micronutrients in
varying different types of planets so
they compared the - diet the South Beach
diet the Atkins diet which is basically
just the ketogenic diet and I believe
one other - so no it was it was those
three so - in South Beach are heavy and
nothing - is pretty much all follow
vegetables and some meats and then South
Beach is somewhere in between and Atkins
is primarily meats and animal products
and then animal proteins I should say
and then it's
yeah and then vegetables so what was
what was looked on it was to get the
recommended daily values what was
required how what was the nutrient the
value that was required how many
calories were required for somebody to
get this this level of nutrients from
the recommended daily intakes
administered by the FDA were published
by the FDA so the answer was
twenty-seven thousand calories of whole
foods would need to be ingested on
average to get to minimum dosages of the
27 micronutrients 27,000 calories per
day so my question when when reading
this now of course the conclusion of the
study is so people definitely need to
take a multivitamin or the recommended
daily intake by the FDA is some wrong
with it but doesn't make any sense
because last night yet Homo sapiens were
thriving on this planet and they didn't
they certainly didn't need 27,000
calories per day and also you have to
consider that just about anybody from it
just about any place maybe eight one or
two different types of things if you are
a Native American and you ate bison and
maybe some kind of berries are plants
when they were moving like for a couple
weeks that's about it and if you're a
Viking Yuri whale plumber if you were so
Nordic countries I shouldn't call them
Vikings I'm not sure
offensive or not actually they should
fund that pretty cool with Vikings are
awesome let's see if you were from you
know the Mediterranean you a fish
because that's what was there so the
idea that these micronutrients are just
so required for for disease avoidance is
kind of strange kind of silly and it
seems an awful lot like the people who
wrote those recommendations or like in
them vitamin sales business just seems
out that's conspiracy theory and maybe
these things were developed out of some
sort of responsibility you know we don't
we don't really know these were came a
long time ago but then after this there
was a 2011 study from the University of
Minnesota which show the people that
took one that multivitamins died younger
than people who did not take
multivitamins the same year Cleveland
Clinic came up with vitamin E being
attributed to higher prevalence of
prostate cancer and these
recommendations may all go back to
actually you are released of the higher
levels the top track of my vitamins it
became much more popular in the 1940s
when Linus Pauling started saying if you
have ten times the recommended daily
allowance of vitamin C you're never
going to get cold or me how cold will go
away and that was tested a number of
times after he said it and
that was found to be untrue though it
was exciting and possibly the press
picks up on exciting things more often
than they pick up on you know something
that's not so exciting or bad news so so
it was hopeful and then after that was
pretty well disproven professor Pauling
started saying that vitamin C was also
the cure for cancer which was also very
quickly disproven and the despite
waiting I think was two Nobel Prizes he
wouldn't very popular after that because
it's just kind of made these things up
and they had an interesting argument
about antioxidants so this is really why
we talk about antioxidants antioxidants
are really where electrons are borrowed
to stop something that is oxidizing so
again interesting theory now that also
is predicated on the idea that you have
inflammation you're oxidizing on the
inside of your body we have an
anti-inflammatory diet like a ketogenic
diet or carb or diet
well then you don't information so what
would you eat in how to that's work
you're not oxidized you wouldn't so also
there's sort of a logic problem that you
need to have this one thing to keep from
all these things that come from
vegetables which are poisonous for
hurting you so you have to have
derivatives of other vegetables fruits
the antioxidants to protect you from
these things which just seems
[Music]
illogical to me and it's a bit of an
oversimplification but ultimately even
the Harvard School of Public Health has
said some pretty strong things about
Airy oxidants in vitamins in general and
just pointing out it's not saying don't
go and taking these things just saying
there's a lot of hype there and there
may not be the validity there that you
are you are looking for that may be
protecting you
so hence a false of the fitness episode
and on vitamins and micronutrients